A Internet não é feita de fios de cobre, fibras de vidro, ondas de rádio ou mesmo canos.
Os dispositivos que nós usamos para nos conectar à Internet não são a Internet.
Verizon, Comcast, AT&T, Deutsche Telekom, and 中国电信 não são donas da Internet. Facebook, Google e Amazon não são os monarcas da Rede, nem mesmo são seus minions or algorítmos. Nem os governos da Terra nem suas Earth nor their Associações de Comércio detêm o consenso dos conectados para cavalgar a Rede como soberanos.
Nós mantemos a Internet em comum e assim sem dono.
De nós e do que construímos sobre ela, a Internet deriva todo o seu valor.
A Net é de nós, por nós e para nós.
A Internet é nossa.
A Internet não é uma coisa mais do que a gravidade é uma coisa. Ambas nos puxam juntos.
A Internet é uma não-coisa em tudo. Na sua base, a Internet é um conjunto de acordos, que o nerds entre nós (que seus nomes possam ser santificados) chamam de "protocolos", mas que nós devemos, no humor do dia, chamarmos de "mandamentos".
O primeiro entre esses é: Tua rede deve deslocar todos os pacotes mais perto de seus destinos, sem favor ou atraso com base em origem, procedência, conteúdo ou intenção.
Assim esse Primeiro Mandamento põe aberta a Internet para toda ideia, aplicação, negócio, procura, vício e tanto faz.
Não existiu uma ferramenta com tal propósito geral desde a linguagem.
Isso significa que a Internet não é para nada em particular. Nem para redes sociais, nem para documentos, nem para propagandas, nem para negócios, nem para educação, nem para pornografia, nem para nada. Ela é especificamente projetada para tudo.
Otimizar a Internet para um propósito é des-otimizá-la para todos os outros.
A Internet como a gravidade é indiscriminada em sua atração. Ela nos puxa todos juntos, o virtuoso e o malvado da mesma forma.
Há vasto conteúdo na Internet. Mas minha nossa senhora, a Internet não é feita de conteúdo.
O primeiro poema de um adolescente, o bem-aventurado lançamento de um segredo há muito guardado, o delgado esboço de um desenho por uma mão paralítica, um post de blog em um regime que odeia o som da voz das pessoa — nenhuma dessas pessoas se sentou para escrever conteúdo.
Nós usamos a palava "conteúdo" sem aspas? Nós nos sentimos sujos.
A Rede não é um meio mais do que uma conversa é um meio.
Na Rede, nós somos o meio. Nós somos aqueles que movem as mensagens. Nos assim fazemos toda vez que postamos ou retuitamos, enviamos um link em um email ou o postamos em uma rede social.
Diferente de uma mídia, você e eu deixamos nossas digitais, e às vezes marcas de mordidas nas mensagens que passamos. Dizemos às pessoas porque estamos enviando a mensagem.  Nós argumentamos, adicionamos uma piadinha.  Nós cortamos a parte que não gostamos. A gente faz esse tipo de coisa.
Toda vez que enviamos uma mensagem pela rede, ela carrega um pouco de nós com ela. 
Só enviamos uma mensagem através de um meio se nos importamos com ela, em uma das infinitas maneiras que seres humanos se importam com algo. 
Cuidar - se importar - é a força motriz da Internet. 
Em 1991, Tim Berners-Lee usou a Internet para criar um presente que ele nos deu de graça: a World Wide Web. Obrigada. 
Tim criou a Web por protocolos (Ahá! essa palavra de novo!) que nos dizem como escrever uma página para que ela possa se conectar com outras sem precisar que ninguém dê sua permissão. 
Boom! Em 10 anos colocamos dez bilhões de páginas na Web - um esforço combinado do tamanho de uma guerra mundial, e ainda assim tão benigno que a maior reclamação contra isso era a tag <blink>. 
A Web é um reino grande, semi-persistente de itens a descobrir nas suas densas inter conexões. 
Isso soa familiar. Ops, sim! Esse é o mundo como ele é. 
Ao contrário do mundo real, cada coisa e cada conexão na Web foi criada por alguns de nós expressando um interesse e uma suposição sobre como pequenas peças podem se juntar. 
Cada link feito por uma pessoa com alguma coisa para dizer é um ato de generosidade e abnegação, ofertando nossos leitores a deixarem a nossa própria página para ver como o mundo se parece para outra pessoa. 
A Web remonta o mundo em nossa imagem coletiva mais emergente. 
É importante perceber e nutrir essa conversa, as amizades, os milhares de atos de simpatia, docura e alegria que encontramos na Internet. 
E ainda assim ouvimos palavras como "viadinho" e "negão" muito mais na rede do que fora dela. 
A demonização "deles" - pessoas com imagem, linguagem, opinião, afiliação e outro tipo de característica que não entendemos, gostamos ou toleramos - é pior do que nunca na internet. 
As mulheres na Arábia Saudita não dirigem? Enquanto isso, metade de nós não pode falar na Rede sem parecer arrogante. 
A rede está cheia de ódio porque está presente no mundo, mas a Rede facilita tanto que se expresse isso como que se ouça.
A solução: se nós tivéssemos uma solução, nós não estaríamos importunando você com essas malditas evidências.
Nós podemos afirmar esse tanto: O ódio não invocou a existência da Rede, mas está mantendo a Rede — e nós — atrasados.
Let's at least acknowledge that the Net has values implicit in it. Human values.
Viewed coldly the Net is just technology. But it's populated by creatures who are warm with what they care about: their lives, their friends, the world we share.
The Net offers us a common place where we can be who we are, with others who delight in our differences.
No one owns that place. Everybody can use it. Anyone can improve it.
That's what an open Internet is. Wars have been fought for less.
The world is spread out before us like a buffet, and yet we stick with our steak and potatoes, lamb and hummus, fish and rice, or whatever.
We do this in part because conversation requires a common ground: shared language, interests, norms, understandings. Without those, it's hard or even impossible to have a conversation.
Shared grounds spawn tribes. The Earth's solid ground kept tribes at a distance, enabling them to develop rich differences. Rejoice! Tribes give rise to Us vs. Them and war. Rejoice? Not so much.
On the Internet, the distance between tribes starts at zero.
Apparently knowing how to find one another interesting is not as easy as it looks.
That's a challenge we can meet by being open, sympathetic, and patient. We can do it, team! We're #1! We're #1!
Being welcoming: There's a value the Net needs to learn from the best of our real world cultures.
We were right the first time: Markets are conversations.
A conversation isn't your business tugging at our sleeve to shill a product we don't want to hear about.
if we want to know the truth about your products, we'll find out from one another.
We understand that these conversations are incredibly valuable to you. Too bad. They're ours.
You're welcome to join our conversation, but only if you tell us who you work for, and if you can speak for yourself and as yourself.
Every time you call us "consumers" we feel like cows looking up the word "meat."
Quit fracking our lives to extract data that's none of your business and that your machines misinterpret.
Don't worry: we'll tell you when we're in the market for something. In our own way. Not yours. Trust us: this will be good for you.
Ads that sound human but come from your marketing department's irritable bowels, stain the fabric of the Web.
When personalizing something is creepy, it's a pretty good indication that you don't understand what it means to be a person.
Personal is human. Personalized isn't.
The more machines sound human, the more they slide down into the uncanny valley where everything is a creep show.
Also: Please stop dressing up ads as news in the hope we'll miss the little disclaimer hanging off their underwear.
When you place a "native ad," you're eroding not just your own trustworthiness, but the trustworthiness of this entire new way of being with one another.
And, by the way, how about calling "native ads" by any of their real names: "product placement," "advertorial," or "fake fuckinggosh darn news"?
Advertisers got along without being creepy for generations. They can get along without being creepy on the Net, too.
We all love our shiny apps, even when they're sealed as tight as a Moon base. But put all the closed apps in the world together and you have a pile of apps.
Put all the Web pages together and you have a new world.
Web pages are about connecting. Apps are about control.
As we move from the Web to an app-based world, we lose the commons we were building together.
In the Kingdom of Apps, we are users, not makers.
Every new page makes the Web bigger. Every new link makes the Web richer.
Every new app gives us something else to do on the bus.
Ouch, a cheap shot!
Hey, "CheapShot" would make a great new app! It's got "in-app purchase" written all over it.
Non-neutral applications built on top of the neutral Net are becoming as inescapable as the pull of a black hole.
If Facebook is your experience of the Net, then you've strapped on goggles from a company with a fiduciary responsibility to keep you from ever taking the goggles off.
Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple are all in the goggles business.  The biggest truth their goggles obscure: These companies want to hold us the way black holes hold light.
These corporate singularities are dangerous not because they are evil. Many of them in fact engage in quite remarkably civic behavior. They should be applauded for that.
But they benefit from the gravity of sociality: The "network effect" is that thing where lots of people use something because lots of people use it.
Where there aren't competitive alternatives, we need to be hypervigilant to remind these Titans of the Valley of the webby values that first inspired them.
And then we need to honor the sound we make when any of us bravely pulls away from them. It's something between the noise of a rocket leaving the launchpad and the rip of Velcro as you undo a too-tight garment.
If we want our government to back off, the deal has to be that if — when — the next attack comes, we can't complain that they should have surveilled us harder.
A trade isn't fair trade if we don't know what we're giving up. Do you hear that, Security for Privacy trade-off?
With a probability approaching absolute certainty, we are going to be sorry we didn't do more to keep data out of the hands of our governments and corporate overlords.
Personal privacy is fine for those who want it. And we all draw the line somewhere.
Q: How long do you think it took for pre-Web culture to figure out where to draw the lines? A: How old is culture?
TheWeb is barely out of its teens. We are at the beginning, not the end, of the privacy story.
We can only figure out what it means to be private once we  figure out what it means to be social. And we've barely begun to re-invent that.
The economic and political incentives to de-pants and up-skirt  us are so strong that we'd be wise to invest in tinfoil underwear.
Hackers got us into this and hackers will have to get us out.
The Internet is astounding. The Web is awesome. You are beautiful. Connect us all and we are more crazily amazing than Jennifer Lawrence. These are simple facts.
So let's not minimize what the Net has done in the past twenty years:
There's so much more music in the world.
We now make most of our culture for ourselves, with occasional forays to a movie theater for something blowy-uppy and a $9 nickel-bag of popcorn.
Politicians now have to explain their positions far beyond the one-page "position papers" they used to mimeograph.
Anything you don't understand you can find an explanation for. And a discussion about. And an argument over. Is it not clear how awesome that is?
You want to know what to buy? The business that makes an object of desire is now the worst source of information about it. The best source is all of us.
You want to listen in on a college-level course about something you're interested in? Google your topic. Take your pick. For free.
Yeah, the Internet hasn't solved all the world's problems. That's why the Almighty hath given us asses: that we might get off of them.
Internet naysayers keep us honest. We just like 'em better when they aren't ingrates.
We were going to tell you how to fix the Internet in four easy steps, but the only one we could remember is the last one: profit. So instead, here are some random thoughts…
We should be supporting the artists and creators who bring us delight or ease our burdens.
We should have the courage to ask for the help we need.
We have a culture that defaults to sharing and laws that default to copyright. Copyright has its place, but when in doubt, open it up.
In the wrong context, everyone's an a-hole. (Us, too. But you already knew that.) So if you're inviting people over for a swim, post the rules. All trolls, out of the pool!
If the conversations at your site are going badly, it's your fault.
Wherever the conversation is happening, no one owes you a response, no matter how reasonable your argument or how winning your smile.
Support the businesses that truly "get" the Web. You'll recognize them not just because they sound like us, but because they're on our side.
Sure, apps offer a nice experience. But the Web is about links that constantly reach out, connecting us without end. For lives and ideas, completion is death. Choose life.
Anger is a license to be stupid. The Internet's streets are already crowded with licensed drivers.
Live the values you want the Internet to promote.
If you've been talking for a while, shut up. (We will very soon.)
Being together: the cause of and solution to every problem.
If we have focused on the role of the People of the Net  — you and us — in the Internet's fall from grace, that's because we still have the faith we came in with.
We, the People of the Net, cannot fathom how much we can do together because we are far from finished inventing how to be together.
The Internet has liberated an ancient force — the gravity drawing us together.
A gravidade da conexão é amor.
Que viva a Internet aberta.
Que possamos ter nossa Internet para amar.
